---
title: Home
description: 'About the Docus Starter.'
icon: carbon:home
layout: home
primarycta: 
  label: For designers
  link: /getting-started/designers
secondarycta: 
  label: For developers
  link: /getting-started/developers
---


## What is Ripple?

The Ripple Design System is the front-end layer of SDP. It provides a single source of truth for styles, components and patterns when creating digital experiences on SDP.

Designers, content creators and developers across government can all draw from the same library of components, knowing designs are accurate and up-to-date. This reduces time, costs, effort and duplication, to increase efficiency when we build digital content.

Most importantly, it helps provide users of Victorian digital services with simpler, more consistent and cohesive online experiences.

## Who is Ripple for?

- Designers can easily and quickly create wireframes, high-fidelity designs and prototypes using a user tested set of UI components.
- Developers can create websites using a common set of SDP supported UI components. These components can be used within the full SDP stack using a Tide Drupal CMS managed site, or using just the elements needed to suit your project.


## Usage

Most SDP websites are built using the recommended stack which includes a Tide Drupal backend and a [Nuxt 3](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/) rendered frontend.

Ripple can also be used in several other ways that may be suited to your project if it is being developed outside of the SDP team.

The type of project will determine the best way of installing it.


::DocsGrid
  ::DocsCard
  ---
  title: With Tide Drupal
  url: /
  class: rpl-col-4-m 
  icon: 'simple-icons:drupal'
  ---
    Using Ripple in a Nuxt app with a Tide Drupal backend.
  ::
  ::DocsCard
  ---
  title: In a Nuxt app
  url: www.google.com
  class: rpl-col-4-m 
  icon: 'simple-icons:nuxtdotjs'
  ---
    Using Ripple in a Nuxt app without Tide
  ::
  ::DocsCard
  ---
  title: In a Vue app
  url: www.google.com
  class: rpl-col-4-m 
  icon: 'simple-icons:vuedotjs'
  ---
    Using Ripple in a Vue JS app
  ::
  ::DocsCard
  ---
  title: Webcomponents
  url: www.google.com
  class: rpl-col-4-m 
  icon: 'simple-icons:webcomponentsdotorg'
  ---
    Using Ripple with WebComponents
  ::
::


