---
title: Getting started
description: Information for developers using the Ripple 2 UI libraries
layout: page
links:
  - text: Github
    url: https://github.com/dpc-sdp/ripple-framework
  - text: Storybook
    url: /storybook
---



This section contains information about the Ripple user interface libraries. These libraries are a collection of UI components which implement the Ripple Design System. The components are written in Vue and are split accross two packages: 
- `ripple-ui-core`: A collection of common UI components used in SDP sites. For example buttons, cards, icons and typography.
- `ripple-ui-forms`: A collection of form inputs and support for building complex forms via [Formkit](https://formkit.com/)

> **These docs are for Ripple 2**
>
> Ripple 2 is a complete rebuild. If you are looking for information about the previous version of Ripple please visit the [original Ripple GitHub repo](https://github.com/dpc-sdp/ripple).

> **Are you developing a site on the SDP platform?**
>
> This section is about the Ripple UI component libraries, and there is a lot more to developing a Ripple/Tide/Bay site that is not covered here.
> 
> For more relevant documentation, visit the [Ripple Layer development guide (TODO)](#TODO)

## Accessing the Source code

Ripple 2 is an open source project and the source code can be found in the [ripple-framework monorepo on Github](https://github.com/dpc-sdp/ripple-framework).

This monorepo contains a lot more than just the UI libraries so we've provided direct links to packages below:
- [View `ripple-ui-core` on Github](https://github.com/dpc-sdp/ripple-framework/tree/develop/packages/ripple-ui-core)
- [View `ripple-ui-forms` on Github](https://github.com/dpc-sdp/ripple-framework/tree/develop/packages/ripple-ui-forms)

## Viewing examples in Storybook

The Ripple Storybook has information about props and slots that each Vue component supports. [View the Ripple storybook](/storybook) to start exploring the available components.

Most of the examples found on this documentation site link directly examples in storybook.

---


## Usage

### Using in an SDP website

> If you are using Ripple 2 to build a site on the SDP platform, the UI libraries will be included automatically when scaffolding your project.
>
> For more relevant documentation, visit the [Ripple Layer development guide (TODO)](#TODO)

### Using in a Vue app

To install Ripple UI in your project, run:

`npm install @dpc-sdp/ripple-ui-core --save`

In order for the styles to appear correctly, you will need to import them. Do this at the root of your project (usually in your app.vue or index.js file):

```js
import '@dpc-sdp/ripple-ui-core/style';
import '@dpc-sdp/ripple-ui-core/style/components';
```

To use a component, import it from `@dpc-sdp/ripple-ui-core/vue`, note the addition of `/vue`.

```js
<script setup>
import { RplButton } from '@dpc-sdp/ripple-ui-core/vue';
</script>

<template>
  <RplButton variant="outlined" />
</template>
```

### Using in a Nuxt app

To install Ripple UI in your project, run:

`npm install @dpc-sdp/ripple-ui-core --save`

Ripple UI exports a nuxt module that you can add to your nuxt config, note the addition of `/nuxt`:

```js
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: [
    '@dpc-sdp/ripple-ui-core/nuxt'
  ]
})
```

In order for the styles to appear correctly, you will need to import them. Do this at the root of your project (usually in your app.vue file):

```js
import '@dpc-sdp/ripple-ui-core/style';
import '@dpc-sdp/ripple-ui-core/style/components';
```

There is no need to import the components as they will be registered globally by the nuxt module

```js
<template>
  <RplButton variant="outlined" />
</template>
```
