---
title: Creating new layers
description: Implementing custom functionality through layers
layout: page
links:
  - text: Nuxt layers documentation
    url: https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/layers
---

Nuxt layers are used to encapsulate Ripple functionality, so it can easily be shared and reused across projects, see [key concepts - layers](/framework/key-concepts/nuxt-layers) for a conceptual overview of what layers are and how they are used within Ripple.

## Creating a new layer

The Nuxt Ripple CLI provides a simple way to initialise new layers, to create a new layer just run the following command:

```
npx @dpc-sdp/nuxt-ripple-cli init layer [DIRECTORY] --name {NAME}
```

Where `[DIRECTORY]` is the location to output the layer scaffolding and `{NAME}` is the name of the new layer. This command will scaffold everything you need to get started developing a new layer.

## Developing the layer

Once the layer has been created you can start working with it by running the command below from the new layers directory. This will start a development server and allow you to start working on the layer.

```bash 
npm run dev
```

The `playground` folder contains the essentials to get a test Nuxt application up and running, it includes a `app.config.js`, `nuxt.config.js` and `.env` file. The `nuxt.config.js` includes a core set of layers used by Ripple to get a reference sdp site up and running, it also includes the new layer itself.

> The `playground` folder is a fully functional Nuxt application and can be used to test the new layer in isolation.

The layers structure is almost identical to a normal Nuxt app, meaning you can utilise the same features and conventions as a standard Nuxt application. i.e. create a `pages` folder for new pages, create a `components` folder for new components, etc.

Other useful commands:
- `npm run build` to do a production build of the `.preview` application (for testing purposes)
- `npm run lint` to lint the layer code with [eslint](https://eslint.org/)
- `npm run test` to run any unit tests with [jest](https://jestjs.io/)

## Publishing the layer

Once the layer is ready to be published it can be published to npm or pushed to a remote git repository, [GitHub](https://github.com/), [GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/), and [Bitbucket](https://bitbucket.org/) are supported. 
For more on publishing to npm see [contributing packages to the npm registry](https://docs.npmjs.com/packages-and-modules/contributing-packages-to-the-registry).

## Using the layer

Nuxt layers can be added to any Nuxt site by including the layer in the `nuxt.config.js` file under extends. If the layer is published to npm don't forget to `npm install` it first.

```js
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  extends: [
    '@dpc-sdp/nuxt-ripple', // An npm installed package
    'github:dpc-sdp/ripple-vic-gov-au-custom#1.0.0' // A tagged git repository
  ]
})
```

Also, make sure to check the layers documentation for any additional configuration that may be required.

> To extend from a private repository, you need to add a `GIGET_AUTH=<token>` environment variable, with an auth token from your git provider.

### Caveats when using layers from a git repository

If a layer is added via a git repository and that layer has npm dependencies, you will need to manually install them within the Nuxt application utilising the layer. The Nuxt team are looking at auto-installing layer dependencies in the future, see [issue #13367](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/issues/13367). 

You will also need to alias the dependencies in the Nuxt application, so they can be resolved to the correct package location. This can be done by adding an `alias` object to the `nuxt.config.js` file.

```js 
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  alias: {
    'date-fns': require.resolve('date-fns')
  }
})
```
