---
title: Theme and brand application
description: Design tokens store our design decisions in the Ripple Design System. They are the single source of truth.
layout: page
label: Core

---

Ripple has been designed with in-built custom theming capabilities. Theming can be applied if your site requires department or entity branding and has been approved to use theming. Please note it is recommend you utilise the brand equity of vic.gov where possible and only theme your site if needed and approved. Please contact the SDP team for more information on approvals for theming.

Ripple uses primary and accent colours, an optional gradient, a link colour and a focus state colour. You can read more about their roles and uses in the colour documentation.

When theming your site, styles and components will re-theme automatically. This has been done through the use of design tokens. Design tokens represent repeated design decisions that make up a design system's visual style. Tokens replace static values, such as hex codes for colour. The token informs how colour is used and inherited to ensure a consistent and accessible user experience. 

We’ve designed a colour testing process to ensure the selected colours will pass the accessibility contrast ratios. By classifying the selected colours into ‘Light’ or ‘Dark’ category. The colour system will automatically provide accessible colour contrast to ensure legibility of all content. You will not need to check if you meet WCAG requirements as we have done this for you.

To learn more about if your site should be themed, please contact the SDP team.

---

## Create a custom theme

Ripple has been designed with a primary and accent colour, this informs the colour framework. 

A link colour, focus colour and optional gradient are also required when theming.

The primary, accent and focus colours can be either light or dark:

- ‘Light’ means the colour is WCAG 2.1 AA compliant with dark type (rpl-clr-dark / #1A1A1A)
- ‘Dark’ means the colour is WCAG 2.1 AA compliant with light type (rpl-clr-light / #FFFFFF)

To classify your colour as light or dark, we recommend the use [WebAim Colour Contrast Checker](https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/) or the Figma plugin, [A11y - Colour Contrast Checker](https://www.figma.com/community/plugin/733159460536249875) to see if the colour is accessible with the Ripple dark or light type colours listed above.“

Classifying colours as either ‘dark’ or ‘light’ informs the implementation of other colour tokens to guarantee WCAG 2.1 AA colour contrast requirements. 

It is recommended that the primary colour is always visually darker than the accent and is visually different at glance. This will ensure your users are quickly and easily directed to the most important areas of a web page.

Guidance for creating your own theme can be found on the Theming page of the Ripple 2.0 Design System Figma file. 

If you don’t have access, you can request access to view the Ripple 2.0 Design System. 

---

## Component specific theming

The Ripple Design System has components that allow for specific theming. This is optional, and if not used, components will adopt the default framework styling. Component specific theming is defined at a site level, and will affect all instances of the component.

There are two options for component specific styling:

- Neutral
- Custom

### Neutral

'Neutral' can be applied to the following components:

- Buttons
- Header (Reverse + Image variants only)
- Footer

The colour of neutral component variants cannot be changed. Neutral components have predefined neutral styling and cannot be edited or customised.


### Custom

'Custom' component theming can only be applied to the Footer.

The Footer has been created with component specific design tokens. It is recommended custom theming is only done if required.

To learn more about custom styling please see the Theming page of the Ripple 2.0 Design System Figma file. 


## Theme Accessibility 

